so what has been the reaction to the
attack on the hospital across the region
our correspondent John donison has
more Fury in the West Bank in rala
youths battled with Palestinian Security
Forces who responded with tear gas and
sound grenades as reports of the
hospital strike came in from Gaza
thousands took to the streets in protest
there's anger directed at Israel but
also at president Mahmud Abbas and his
Palestinian Authority which many
perceive as weak and lacking
legitimacy Mr abass announced he was
canceling a meeting with President Biden
in Jordan and was flying
home there were Mass protests there this
evening too and clashes outside the
Israeli Embassy in
Aman during the foundation of Israel
when it occupied this area they are
breaching International humanitarian law
Geneva agreement is obvious in this
regard medical centers or hospitals
should not be
touched in Turkey also thousands rallied
against Israel as the war in Gaza
escalates it's a dangerous moment for
The Wider region John donison BBC
News well for more on this I'm now
joined by my colleague from BBC Arabic
SED shahata sahid we're still yet to
know who was behind the attack or what
caused it exactly but what more are you
hearing from the ground there in Gaza
City there is like two stories or two
side of the story uh the Arab on both
formal informal levels the street
Ordinary People on social media and the
officials like President of Egypt the
King Abdullah Jordan and all of these
like uh officials all of them condemning
Israel and saying Israel is behind the
attack and uh some of them like Hamas
called it like a war crime or describe
it as a war crime on the other side
Israel uh saying it's uh uh the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad behind that
misfire rocket so there is two side of
the story and it still need to be
verified who who done that but the
problem is the outcome of it at least
500 people died according to the
minister of HS uh in Gaza so it's
disastrous and situation there is bad
because it shelter the hospital like
other facilities shelters the people
coming from the north because Gaza Strip
is very small so to move their density
is very high so it was considered as a
safe place but now people are suspicious
and they start thinking where can we go
so it's a problematic and put pressure
on politician to find a solution as soon
as you can or sooner than than the later
uh because the russion are is is immense
and say it was already a difficult
humanitarian situ situation for people
in Gaza hospitals struggling uh to find
medicine to treat patients what kind of
help is getting to the people affected
by this blast at the hospital is little
help because according to the World
Health Organization the saying even some
like health health facilities was uh
were targeted by air strikes and some of
the medical staff killed in addition to
that there is uh no food or the shortage
of food and all the hope of to find a
solution if like uh President Biden
maybe find a solution to open a
humanitarian humanitarian Corridor
through Rafa because there's many trucks
of Aid Waiting On the Border needing the
approval of Israel to go through I think
it's it's urgently needed because people
dying uh they they face like difficulty
in finding food or water they queuing
and some of them like came on social
media saying like even we are going to
go back to the north again because we
can't find food we can't find even
safety which we uh took the hardship to
go there from the uh from North to the
sou so now we should go back home at
least we have like some stuff to to live
on in our in our home yeah